How can I track if a quote get clicked?
Well we learned a couple of methods to react to that,
I'll use the one where I go to quote grid and here, I do have my app quote.
Now if I add @click like this on my own component, that will not work
but what I can do is I can add the native modifier. What the native modifier does is it tells vuejs
well react to a click on that component
if it happens on the native element of this component, so it will basically register a click here on
the div which in the end is what sets in html code
but since we add the native property, excuse me, native modifier here, it knows
yeah even though that happened on the html code of that component,
treat it like I clicked on app quote here which I can't because that is not appended to the dom, only
the code in the template is appended to the dom.
So this allows me to click on a component, as the build treat clicks on the template as clicks on the component
and I can therefore execute the delete quote method.
Now to delete the quote, I need to add my methods here, an object where I add delete quote and now,
how do I determine which quote to delete?
I need the index of that quote to delete the right one from the array. To get the index,
I'll go to my v-for loop and we learnt that we can extract more than just the element.
The second argument would be the current index and if we loop through an array, the index is of course
exactly what I need to delete an array, to delete an element from the same array.
Therefore I can here pass index to the delete quote method,
I get the index here too
therefore and hence, I can use this to now also emit my own event and when I am at this event,
let's give it a name of quote deleted,
I pass the index as an argument.
Now with that, I can go to the app.vue file where I use this grid and in there, I simply want to listen to
this,
so here I can listen to my own event, the quote deleted event and execute delete quote here too.
The fact that I named this delete quote here in the app.vue file and in the quote grid is totally
irrelevant,
the naming could be different because in the quote grid, I execute this delete quote method and in the
app.vue file, I delete the method I am going to create now.
So here I'm also going to create a delete quote method where I get the index as an argument,
I'm not passing it here because again vuejs will do that for me, just as it did
for quote added where it also passed the content for me and then down there in delete quote,
I simply want to access my quotes array,
use the splice method, start splicing at the position of the index and then splice one element
to modify the existing array and simply remove one element from it.
Now with this, I'm able to delete quotes as we should see
once I add a new one, click on it, it's gone.
So this works fine
and lastly, let's add the functionality to track the number, to give us a warning if we want to add more
than 10 and to show the progress bar.